                            Using this CD

Welcome to the Computer Organization and Design, 3rd Edition Companion
CD. This page contains some information to help you get started using
the CD.

    * What you will find on the CD
    * System Requirements
    * Starting to Use the CD
    * Locating content
          - Page, Figure and Exercise numbering
    * Copying the CD content onto your hard drive
    * Known Issues
    * Acknowledgments

----------------------------------------------------------------

What you will find on the CD

    * CD Sections: Full length sections that are introduced in the
      book.

    * CD Appendixes: The entire set of appendixes.

    * CD Library: Materials collected from the web which directly
      support the text.

    * CD Exercises: For More Practice provides exercises and solutions
      for self-study. In More Depth presents new information and
      challenging exercises for the advanced or curious student.

    * Glossary: Terms that are defined in the text are collected in
      this searchable reference.

    * Index: Covering the book and CD contents.

    * Further Reading: References are organized by the chapter they
      support.

    * Software: HDL simulators, MIPS simulators, and FPGA design
      tools.

    * Tutorials: SPIM, Verilog, and VHDL.

    * Additional Support: Processor models and labs.

----------------------------------------------------------------

System Requirements

Operating System

Most of the content of this CD can be used under any operating system
that includes an HTML browser and a PDF viewer. This includes Windows
98 or later, Mac OS 9 and OS X, and most Linux and Unix systems. Some
contributed software on the CD is operating system specific. See the
installation instructions on the Software page for details.

HTML Browser

The navigation framework and some of the content on this CD is
delivered in HTML and JavaScript. It is recommended that you install
the latest version of your favorite HTML browser to view this CD. The
content has been verified under Windows 2000 with the following
browsers:

    * Internet Explorer 6.0
    * Mozilla 1.6
    * Netscape 7.1
    * Opera 7.23

under Mac OS X with the following browsers:

    * Internet Explorer 5.2.3
    * Mozilla 1.6
    * Netscape 7.1
    * Safari 1.2

and under Mandrake Linux with the following browser:

    * galeon 1.3.8

The content is designed to be viewed in a browser window that is at
least 720 pixels wide. You may find the content does not display well
if your display is not set to at least 1024x768 pixel resolution.

PDF Viewer

The CD material includes PDF documents that you can read with a PDF
viewer such as Adobe Acrobat or Adobe Reader. Recent versions of Adobe
Reader for Windows and Macintosh platforms are included on the CD. See
the Using this CD page for further details.

Additional Browser Plugins

Some of the material on this CD makes use of Flash® animations. To
view this material, you will need to have Macromedia® Flash Player
installed. You can install the Shockwave® Player (which includes
Flash) for Windows and Macintosh platforms from this CD. See the Using
this CD page for further details. Note that recent versions of some
browsers, including Internet Explorer, Netscape, and AOL, already
incorporate Flash Player.

Some of the material on this CD contains photographic panoramas that
can only be viewed with the iseemedia Zoom Viewer browser plugin on
Windows and Mac OS 9 platforms. See the Using this CD page for further
details.

----------------------------------------------------------------

Starting to Use the CD

To start using the CD, load it into your computer's CD drive. On
Windows computers, the CD should automatically start your web browser
at the Home page. If it does not, you should double-click on the
index.html file in the CD drive (usually D:). On older Windows
operating systems, the MS-DOS Prompt window that starts the web
browser may persist after the browser has started. You can simply
close the window. Alternatively, to prevent it from persisting on
subsequent invocations, right-click on the window's title bar, choose
the Properties menu command, check the "Close on exit" box, and click
OK. Then close the window.

On Macintosh computers, load the CD into your computer's drive, open
the COD3E folder that appears on your desktop, and double-click on the
index.html document.

On Linux or Unix systems, load the CD into your computer's drive.
Depending on your system configuration, if the CD does not
automatically mount, you will need to mount it using the "mount"
command. Use your desktop file navigator to locate the directory
representing the mounted CD, then double-click the index.html file
within that directory.

On any of these systems, you can use a browser other than the default
browser to read the CD content. Start the browser of your choice, and
use its file-opening menu command and dialog to locate the index.html
file on the CD. Open that file to see the Home page in your browser.

----------------------------------------------------------------

Locating Content

The navigation sidebar contains buttons to access the content of this
CD according to category.

The Search page provides a search engine for locating content
containing keywords. Click on the Search sidebar button to go to the
search page.

Since the content of this CD is delivered primarily in Adobe PDF
(Portable Document Format), you can search within individual documents
using the search features of your PDF viewer. For more information on
searching within a PDF file, see the help menu within your PDF viewer.

The CD also includes an index for the content of the book and the CD
Sections. Index entries refer to content by page number.


Page, Figure and Exercise Numbering

The material in the printed book and on this CD uses a numbering
scheme designed to allow you identify where to locate the material.

Pages in the book are numbered sequentially (1, 2, 3, ...). Pages in
sections on the CD are numbered according to their section. For
example, in CD Section 1.7, the pages are numbered 1.7-1, 1.7-2, and
so on.

So if you see a simple page number, you know to look for the page in
the book. If you see a page number of the form x.y-z, you know to look
in Section x.y on the CD for page z.

Figures are also numbered differently in the book and on the CD. In
the book, figures are numbered with the chapter number and a
sequential figure number. For example, in Chapter 1, figures are
numbered 1.1, 1.2, and so on. On the CD, figures are numbered with the
section number and a sequential figure number within that section. For
example, in CD Section 6.7, figures are numbered 6.7.1, 6.7.2, and so
on.

So if you see a figure number for the form x.y, you know to look in
Chapter x in the book for the y'th figure. If you see a figure number
of the form x.y.z, you know to look in Section x.y on the CD for the
z'th figure.

The exercises for each chapter are located in a numbered section of
that chapter. Each exercise is numbered with the chapter number and a
sequential exercise number. For example, in Chapter 2, exercises are
numbered 2.1, 2.2, and so on. In More Depth (IMD) and For More
Practice (FMP) exercises are listed in the book, referring to the
detailed descriptions on the CD.

Pages of the IMD and FMP sections are numbered as for CD Sections, but
prefixed with "IMD" and "FMP", respectively. For example, in Chapter
2, exercises appear in Section 2.20. So IMD pages are numbered IMD
2.20-1, IMD 2.20-2, and so on. FMP pages are numbered FMP 2.20-1, FMP
2.20-2, and so on.

----------------------------------------------------------------

Copying the CD content to your hard drive

You can copy the content of the CD to your computer's hard drive to
make accessing the content faster and to avoid tying up your CD
drive. You will need approximately 450MB of free space on your hard
drive to copy the material.

On Windows systems, double-click on the My Computer icon on the
desktop. Then right-click on the icon for the CD drive (usually D:)
and select Open from the popup menu. Select all of the items on the
CD, then select the Edit->Copy menu command. Now click the Back button
and navigate to the folder on your hard drive where you want to place
the content. Select the Edit->Paste menu command. When the content has
been copied, you can double-click on the index.html file in the folder
on your hard drive to access the content.

On Mac systems, use the finder to open the folder on your hard drive
where you want to place the content. Then double-click on the COD3E
icon representing the CD on the desktop. Select all of the items on
the CD and drag them into the folder on your hard drive. When the
content has been copied, you can double-click on the index.html file
in the folder on your hard drive to access the content.

----------------------------------------------------------------

Known Issues

Issues reported as of 8 July 2004

(1) In some circumstances, clicking on a button in the navigation bar
    causes content to be displayed in a new browser window instead of
    in the main frame of the existing browser window.  The CD
    developers have been unable to reproduce the behavior
    consistently, but are aware of its occurrence.  The behavior has
    been observed under Internet Explorer 6 on Windows systems, and
    appears to occur after a link has been followed to an external
    website (for example, in the CD Library).  To remedy the problem,
    exit and restart the browser.

----------------------------------------------------------------

Acknowledgments

This CD was developed by Ashenden Designs: Peter Ashenden (CD Editor)
and Matt Lowry (Web Developer).

See the Using this CD page for acknowledgments for CD Sections, CD
Library, and support material.

"Adobe", "Acrobat", and "Reader" are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or
other countries.

"Macromedia", "Flash", and "Shockwave" are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Macromedia, Inc. in the United States and/or other
countries.
